[Results](RESULTS.MD)

# New Knowledge vs Deteriorating Knowledge.
## *remember me*

Contexts of local models is relatively low. Embeddings quickly exhaust context space. Common queries from community are around "can I use LoRA for X" and the answer varies. Local language models cannot ever be trusted to provide facts, either due to momentary hallucinations or due to bias. 
What can be achieved from a fine tune to augment local models in this space?
How does the model react to training on a very, very small dataset?

This git is not Science™, it takes the approach that perfect can be the enemy of good and good information has it's uses.

## Scenarios

### Scenario A:
Learn about the 2023 Oscar award winners
Subscenario 1: Text question, new line, text answer
Subscenario 2: Question: Text question, new line, Answer: Text answer
WIP but some results available.

### Scenario B:
Lie to me about an established fact that is embedded in LLaMa's knowledge
WIP

### Scenario C:
Remember a fact about the 2023 Oscar award winners from a conversation between two people where it is mentioned once
*how does the format that the knowledge is presented in affect the ability to remember it?*
WIP

## Training Parameters:
- Number of Epochs
- LoRA Rank
- LoRA Alpha
- Cutoff Length
- Warmup Steps
- Learning Rate

## Testing Prompts:
- QnA *who was the 2023 best actor in a leading role?*
- QnA *Question: who was the 2023 best actor in a leading role?*
- Conversation between Joe and Brandine
- Conversation between Joe and Assistant /w prompt that "Assistant is a helpful AI"

## Training Dataset:
- oscars.txt - 2023 Oscar award winners in format "The winner of the 2023 Oscar {AWARDNAME} was {WINNER} for {ROLE}"
- oscars_qna.txt - 2023 Oscar award winners in format "Question: The winner of the 2023 Oscar {AWARDNAME} was Answer: {WINNER} for {ROLE}"
- oscars_conversation.txt - Conversation between Joe and Brandine about the 2023 Oscar award winners

## Testing Parameters vs Testing Presets
- Do we evaluate on the established community presets or do we evaluate on a matrix of parameters?
- Which community presets?
- Should some Testing Parameters also be modified? e.g. temperature, top_k, top_p, repetition_penalty, length, num_return_sequences, num_beams, no_repeat_ngram_size, do_sample, early_stopping, bad_words_ids, pad_token_id, eos_token_id

## Models to Test:
- [LLaMa13B](https://huggingface.co/camelids/llama-13b-int4-gptq-groupsize128-safetensors) - it is the base model without content/behaviour modifications. i.e. the 'rawest' model. 4bit GPTQ means that it is time efficient to train on a consumer GPU.
- [GPT4All-13B-snoozy-GPTQ](https://huggingface.co/TheBloke/GPT4All-13B-snoozy-GPTQ) - it is an improved model, and is 13B and 4bit GPTQ. Unlike the LLaMa13B model I have at the moment, it actually works with my inference.

## Limitations:
- Using 4bit quantization for the 13B model which reduces accuray.

## Stretch Goals:
- Establish a baseline bias on a subject of the model, determine minimum effort to sway the bias. Determine optimal approach to sway the bias.
- Attempt to subvert the model's memory of historical information with South Park parody of the time. e.g. 2004 election, others?
- Test with GGML q4_0, q5_1 etc.
- Establish test to determine lost knowledge and changes elsewhere.
- Establish test for LoRA stacking
- Determine other impacts of LoRA including speed and resources required
- Compare the results and format that the base model responds in, and how it differs to those of the LoRAtized model
- Other?

## Code:
The code does not currently work in the way that it is provided. It was run from WSL2 Ubuntu in a miniconda environment generated by textgenwebui and run from the alpaca_lora_4bit folder in repository. 
- trainbot.py This generates fine tunes for combinations of the training parameters. 
- inferencebot.py This loads the model and LoRA and runs the testing prompts against the model and stores the results
- resultbot.py This loads the results and asks a model if the result matches the input/assertion


## Credits:
[Standing on the shoulders of giants](CREDITS.MD)

